\documentclass[12pt]{article}
\usepackage{tikz}
\usepackage{ifthen}
\usetikzlibrary{arrows}

% type, redundancy, required, lambda 
\newcommand{\modelgraphlabel}[4]{$#1$ \\ $r=#2$ \\ $\nu=#3$ \\ $\lambda=#4$}

\begin{document}
% Cloud Model 
\begin{figure}
	% draw - outline, fill - color!alpha, align - allows for manual linebreak
	\begin{tikzpicture}[scale = 1, auto = center, every node/.style = {circle, draw = black, fill = gray!25}, bend angle = 90]

		\node (NS)  at ( 0, 16) [align = center] {\iffalse \modelgraphlabel{NS}  {2}{1} {0.01} \fi {NS}  };
		\node (LB1) at (-3, 12) [align = center] {\iffalse \modelgraphlabel{LB1} {2}{1} {0.01} \fi {LB1} };
		\node (LB2) at ( 3, 12) [align = center] {\iffalse \modelgraphlabel{LB2} {2}{1} {0.01} \fi {LB2} };
		\node (FW1) at (-3,  8) [align = center] {\iffalse \modelgraphlabel{FW1} {2}{1} {0.01} \fi {FW1} };  
		\node (FW2) at ( 3,  8) [align = center] {\iffalse \modelgraphlabel{FW2} {2}{1} {0.01} \fi {FW2} };
		\node (HV1) at (-7,  8) [align = center] {\iffalse \modelgraphlabel{HV1} {2}{1} {0.01} \fi {HV1} };
		\node (HV2) at ( 7,  8) [align = center] {\iffalse \modelgraphlabel{HV2} {2}{1} {0.01} \fi {HV2} };  
		\node (SR1) at (-3,  4) [align = center] {\iffalse \modelgraphlabel{SR1} {3}{2} {0.01} \fi {SR1} };
		\node (SR2) at ( 3,  4) [align = center] {\iffalse \modelgraphlabel{SR2} {3}{2} {0.01} \fi {SR2} };
		\node (PB)  at ( 0, 19) [align = center, fill=none, draw=none] {Public\\Internet};

	    \foreach \from/\phy/\to in {NS/1/LB2, LB2/1/FW2, FW2/0.5/LB2,
	    LB2/1/HV2, HV2/1/SR2, HV1/0.9/FW1, FW1/0.1/HV1}
	    	\path (\from) edge [-triangle 60, bend left = 15] node[fill=white, draw=none] {\phy} (\to);
	    \foreach \from/\phy/\to in {NS/1/LB1, LB1/1/FW1, FW1/0.5/LB1, FW2/0.1/HV2, HV2/0.9/FW2, LB1/1/HV1, HV1/1/SR1}
	    	\path (\from) edge [-triangle 60, bend right = 15] node[fill=white, draw=none] {\phy} (\to);
	    \foreach \from/\phy/\to in {FW1/0.01/SR1, FW2/0.01/SR2}
	    	\path (\from) edge [-triangle 60] node[fill=white, draw=none] {\phy} (\to);

	    \path (PB) edge [dashed] node[fill=none, draw=none] {} (NS);
	\end{tikzpicture}
	\caption{Cloud-Computing Architechture}
    \label{fig:cloud}
\end{figure}

\newpage

We now consider a model representing a cloud-computing architecture shown in
Fig~(\ref{fig:cloud}). Solid undirected edges from component type $i$ to
component type $j$ represent $\phi_{i, j}$. The dashed directed edge represents the
connection of our system to the public internet. Our system is designed to
handle hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) requests and simple mail transfer
protocol (SMTP) requests. NS represents a network switch; LB1 and LB2
represent two types of load balancers; FW1 and FW2 represent two types of
firewalls; HV1 and HV2 represent two types of hypervisors; and SR1 and SR2
represent two types of server racks. This organization of components
specifically shows a firewall ``sandwich" as described in \cite{Salch:2004}.

We set $r_{NS} = r_{LB1} = r_{LB2} = r_{FW1} = r_{FW2} = r_{HV1} = r_{HV2} =
2$ and $r_{SR1} = r_{SR2} = 3$. Let $\upsilon_i$ define the number of
components of type $i$ that need to be up for the system to remain
operational. We need at least two server racks of both types SR1 and SR2 to
be up to be able to parallel process across server racks. For other component
types, we require at least one component of each type of the system up in
order for the system to remain operational. Thus, $\upsilon_{NS} =
\upsilon_{LB1} = \upsilon_{LB2} = \upsilon_{FW1} = \upsilon_{FW2} =
\upsilon_{HV1} = \upsilon_{HV2} = 1$ and $\upsilon_{SR1} = \upsilon_{SR2} =
2$. In this model the system up condition is an AND of the individual up
conditions. Note that DECaF1 and DECaF2 allow for a general boolean
combination of inequalities. Additionally, our system operates in two
environments: high demand ($e = 0$) and low demand ($e = 1$). The environment
transition rates $\nu_{0, 1} = 0.01$ and $\nu_{1, 0} = 0.01$. This gives us a
state space of size 69984. Solving a model of this size using DECaF1 would
take a very long time, whereas using DECAF2 tree generation algorithms given
in section \ref{sec:alg} it takes xxx seconds.

We build the system such that all component types that are located to the left
of the network switch (i.e., types with a 1 in their names) handle SMTP
requests only, whereas all component types located to the right of the network
switch (i.e types with a 2 in their names) handle HTTP requests only. Thus,
both the branches need to be operational for the system to be able to handle
HTTP and SMTP requests. This type of decoupling ensures that hardware failure
from one side does not immediately propagate to the other.

We assume that failure of any component causes a certain, downward
propagating, cascading failure because components on levels below the failed
component end up going offline and reach a dormant state. To comply with our
model, dormancy is treated as a failure. We define the public internet to be
at $depth$ 0, the network switch to be at $depth = 1$ and so on. Thus,
\{$\phi_{i,\,j}  = 1 \, | \, i, j \in \Omega, \; depth(j) > depth(i)$\} As
stated in \cite{ReHype:2011} ``hypervisors almost always cause other system
components to fail" and certainly cause server racks to fail because of state
corruption. Thus, there is probability 0.9 that a hypervisor causes a firewall
to fail. A firewall that solely implements an access-control-list verification
is one example of a vulnerable firewall. A firewall that is not robust may let
malicious packets get through and cause a failure of a load balancer. We model
the probability of this is 0.5 assuming half the packets received are malicious. A
firewall can cause a hypervisor to fail by sending malformed packets due to
software bugs or hardware failure. We model the probability of this is 0.1. A
firewall in rare cases (which we model by setting $\phi_{FW1, \, SR1} =
\phi_{FW2, \, SR2} = 0$.01) can expose server racks to attack, though most
likely server racks become inaccessible because of a hypervisor failure.

To estimate $\lambda_i$ for each $i$, we assume that in a high-demand
environment an ``over-clocked"" component is going to fail on average in a
quarter of the time of its warranty and in a low-demand environment a
component fails in about the period of its warranty. Note that our time unit
is in hours. Typical commercial network switches, load balancers and
hypervisors have warranties of 90 days (2160 hours). Thus, $\lambda_{NS, \, 0}
= \lambda_{LB1, \, 0} = \lambda_{LB2, \, 0} = \lambda_{HV1, \, 0} =
\lambda_{HV2, \, 0} = \frac{1}{540} $ and $\lambda_{NS, \, 1} = \lambda_{LB1,
\, 1} = \lambda_{LB2, \, 1} = \lambda_{HV1, \, 1} = \lambda_{HV2, \, 1} =
\frac{1}{4320}$. Since firewalls almost never fail in isolation, we set
$\lambda_{FW1, 0} = \lambda_{FW2, 0} = \lambda_{FW2, 1} = \lambda_{FW1, 1} = 1
\times 10^{-10}$. Commercial server racks often have 3-year (26280 hour)
warranties giving us $\lambda_{SR1, \, 0} = \lambda_{SR2, \, 0} =
\frac{1}{6570}$ and $\lambda_{SR1, \, 1} = \lambda_{SR2, \, 1} =
\frac{1}{52560}$

For the components' repair rates, we assume that all hardware components are
swapped out with a repair rate of 1, i.e., we can replace one component an
hour on average. A repair for a hardware component may also be having to
restart that part of the system if the component is in a dormant condition.
For somplicity we asume this rate is 1 as well. Firewalls being non hardware
components need to be reconfigured and this occurs with a repair rate of 0.1
which means it takes 10 hours.

\bibliographystyle{plain}
\bibliography{cloud}

\end{document}

% I would like to keep 25 % warranty time for high-demand and 200 % warranty time for low-demand. What is your justification ? 

% Salch:2004 is a white paper. (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_paper) How do I cite one?