%
% TODO Sashank's and Nakayama's environmental, repair transitions and numerical
% optimizations (U/D states). Talk about environment dependent phis in Remarks?
% phi pinching

\documentclass[12pt]{article}
\author{M. Sanghavi, S. Tadepalli, M. Nakayama}
\date{March 2013}

\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{algorithm}
\usepackage{algorithmic}
\usepackage{mathabx}
\usepackage[left = 1.0in, top = 1in, right = 1.0in, bottom = 1in, nohead]{geometry}
\usepackage{color}
\usepackage{ulem}
\usepackage{pgfplots}
\usepackage{caption}

\def\myxout{\bgroup \markoverwith{\textcolor{red}{\hbox to.35em{\hss/\hss}}}\ULon}
\def\myxoutii{\bgroup \markoverwith{\textcolor{blue}{\hbox to.35em{\hss/\hss}}}\ULon}

\usepackage{ifthen}

\newboolean{booleanfinal}

% Comment out one of the following lines. If booleanfinal = true, then changes are % not highlighted.
% \setboolean{booleanfinal}{true}
\setboolean{booleanfinal}{false}

\ifthenelse{\boolean{booleanfinal}}
{
  \newcommand{\deleted}[1]{}
  \newcommand{\changed}[1]{#1}
  \newcommand{\deletedii}[1]{}
  \newcommand{\changedii}[1]{#1}
}
{
  \newcommand{\changed}[1]{\textcolor{red}{#1}}
  \newcommand{\deleted}[1]{{\myxout{#1}}}

  \newcommand{\changedii}[1]{\textcolor{blue}{#1}}
  \newcommand{\deletedii}[1]{{\myxoutii{#1}}}

}

\newcommand{\captionAmerica}[2]{\noindent\hrLine\vspace{-0.25em}\\*{\raggedright\textbf{Algorithm #1} #2}\vspace{-0.8em}\\*\hrLine}
\newcommand{\hrLine}{\hspace{\fill}\rule{1.0\linewidth}{0.7pt}\hspace{\fill}}
\newcommand{\varName}[1]{\textrm{\it#1}}
\newcommand{\citeLine}[1]{$\langle \, #1 \, \rangle$}
\newcommand{\citeBlock}[2]{$\langle \, #1 - #2 \, \rangle$}
\newcommand{\nodeLabel}[2]{\mbox{$#1$-$#2$}}


\begin{document}
\title{Working Title}
\maketitle

\section{Model}
\label{sec:model}

We work with the stochastic model of \cite{ING:2009}, which considers the
evolution over time of a repairable dependability system operating in a randomly
changing environment. The system consists of a collection $\Omega = \{ 1, 2,
\ldots, N \}$ of $N < \infty$ component types. Each component type $i \in
\Omega$ has a redundancy $1 \leq r_i < \infty$, and the $r_i$ components of
type~$i$ are assumed to be identical. A component can be either operational (up)
or failed (down).

The environment changes randomly within a set $\mathcal{E} = \{ 0, 1, 2, \ldots,
L \}$. For example, we can think of the environment as representing the current
load on the system, and if there are two possible environments, $0$ and $1$,
then $0$ (resp., $1$) may represent a low (resp., high) load. Once the
environment enters $e \in \mathcal{E}$, it remains there for an exponentially
distributed amount of time with rate $\nu_e > 0$, after which the environment
changes to $e'$ with probability $\delta_{e, e'} \geq 0$, where $\delta_{e, e} =
0$ and $\sum_{e' \in \mathcal{E}} \delta_{e, e'} = 1$. We assume the matrix
$\delta = (\delta_{e, e'} : e, e' \in \mathcal{E})$ is irreducible; i.e., for
each $e, e' \in \mathcal{E}$, there exists $k \geq 1$ and a sequence $e_0 = e,
e_1, e_2, \ldots, e_k = e'$ with each $e_i \in \mathcal{E}$ such that $\prod_{i
= 0}^{k-1} \delta_{e_i, e_{i + 1}} > 0$. In other words, it is possible to
eventually move from environment $e$ to environment $e'$.

The components in the system can randomly fail and then be repaired. When the
environment is $e \in \mathcal{E}$, the failure rate and repair rate of each
component of type $i$ are $\lambda_{i, e} > 0$ and $\mu_{i, e} > 0$,
respectively.  If there is only one environment $e$, i.e., $| \mathcal{E} | =
1$, then the lifetimes and repair times of components of type $i$ are
exponentially distributed with rates $\lambda_{i, e}$ and $\mu_{i, e}$,
respectively. Exponential distributions are frequently used to model lifetimes
of hardware and software components; e.g., see \cite{XDP:2004}. We assume that
all operating components of a type~$i$ have the same failure rate $\lambda_{i,
e}$ in environment $e$. Thus, in a system with  redundancies for which not all
components of a type are needed for operation of the system, the extras are
``hot spares'' since they fail at the same rate as the main components.

Our model includes probabilistic instantaneous cascading failures, which occur
as follows. The ordered set $\Gamma_i$ specifies the types of components that a
failure of a type-$i$ component can cause to simultaneously fail. When a
component of type $i$ fails, it causes a single  component of type~$j \in
\Gamma_i$ to fail at the same time with probability $\phi_{i, j}$ (if there are
components of type $j$ up), and we call $\phi_{i, j}$  a \textit{component-
affected probability}. The events that the individual components of types $j \in
\Gamma_i$ fail immediately are independent. Thus, when a component of type $i$
fails, there are independent ``coin flips'' to determine which components in
$\Gamma_i$ fail, where the coin flip for $j \in \Gamma_i$ comes up heads (one
component of type $j$ fails) with probability $\phi_{i, j}$ and tails (no
components of type $j$ fail) with probability $1 - \phi_{i, j}$.

We allow for a cascading failure to continue as long as there are still
components operational in the system.  For example, the failure of a component
of type $i$ may cause a component of type $j$ to fail (with probability
$\phi_{i, j}$), which in turn makes a component of type $k$ fail (with
probability $\phi_{j, k}$), and so on. As noted in \cite{ING:2009}, the SAVE
package \cite{BHLNS:1994} allows for only one level of cascading, but the
unlimited cascading in our model makes it significantly more difficult to
analyze.

We can think of a cascading failure as a tree of simultaneously failing
components. The root is the component, say of type $i$, whose failure
\textit{triggers} the cascade. The root's children, which are from $\Gamma_i$,
are those components whose immediate failures were directly caused by the root's
failure. At any non-root level of the tree,  these components' failures were
directly caused by the failure of their parents at the previous level. Although
all the failing components in a cascade fail at the same time, we need to
specify an order in which they fail for our problem to be well-defined, as we
explain later in Section~\ref{sec:exrate}. We assume the components in a tree
fail in breadth-first order.

There is a single repairman who fixes failed components using a processor-
sharing discipline. Specifically, if the current environment is $e$ and there is
only one failed component, which is of type $i$, then the repairman fixes that
component at rate $\mu_{i, e}$. If there are $b$ components currently failed,
then the repairman allocates $1 / b$ of his effort to each failed component, so
a failed component of type $i$ is repaired at rate $\mu_{i, e}/b$.

\section{Markov Chain}
\label{sec:ctmc}

We want to analyze the behavior of the system as it evolves over time.  Because
of the processor-sharing repair discipline and the exponential rates for the
event lifetimes, it will suffice to define the state of the system as a vector
containing the number of failed components of each type and the current
environment. Thus, let $S = \{ x = (x_1, x_2, \ldots, x_N, x_{N + 1}) : 0 \leq
x_i \leq r_i \ \forall i \in \Omega, \, x_{N + 1} \in \mathcal{E} \}$ be the
state space, and let $Z = [Z(t) : t \geq 0]$ be the continuous-time Markov time
(CTMC) living on $S$ keeping track of the current state of the system. (If we
had instead considered a first-come-first-served repair discipline, then the
state space would need to be augmented to keep track of the order in which
current set of down components failed.) We assume that $Z$ starts in environment
$0 \in \mathcal{E}$ with no components failed, i.e., state $(0,0, \ldots, 0)$.
As noted in \cite{ING:2009} the CTMC is irreducible and positive recurrent.

We now describe the CTMC's infinitesimal generator matrix $Q = (Q(x, y) : x, y
\in S)$, where $Q(x, y)$ is the rate that the CTMC $Z$ moves from state $x =
(x_1, \ldots, x_N, x_{N + 1})$ to state $y = (y_1, \ldots, y_N, y_{N + 1})$. If
$y_i = x_i$ for each $i \in \Omega$ and $y_{N + 1} \neq x_{N + 1}$, then $(x,
y)$ is an \textit{environment transition} with $Q(x, y) = \nu_{x_{N + 1}}
\delta_{x_{N + 1},y_{N + 1}}$. If $y_i = x_i - 1$ for one $i \in \Omega$, $y_j =
x_j$ for each $j \in \Omega - \{ i \}$, and $y_{N + 1} = x_{N + 1}$, then $(x,
y)$ is a \textit{repair transition} corresponding to the repair of a component
of type $i$, and $Q(x, y) = x_i \mu_{i,x_{N + 1}}/(\sum_{j \in \Omega} x_j)$. If
$y_i \geq x_i$ for all $i \in \Omega$ with $y_j > x_j$ for some $j \in \Omega$
and $y_{N + 1} = x_{N + 1}$, then $(x, y)$ is a \textit{failure transition} in
which $y_i - x_i$ components of type~$i$ fail, $i \in \Omega$. Any other $(x,
y)$ with $x \neq y$ not falling into one of the above three categories is not
possible, so $Q(x, y) = 0$. The diagonal entry $Q(x, x) = -\sum_{y \neq x} Q(x,
y)$, as required for a CTMC; e.g., see Chapter~5 of \cite{Ross:1995}.

We now determine the rate $Q(x, y)$ of a failure transition $(x, y)$. First
consider the case when cascading failures are not possible, i.e., $\Gamma_i =
\emptyset$ for each type~$i$. Then the only possible failure transitions $(x ,
y)$ have $y_i = x_i + 1$ for one $i \in \Omega$, $y_j = x_j$ for each $j \in
\Omega - \{ i \}$, and $y_{N + 1} = x_{N + 1}$, and this corresponds to a single
component of type~$i$ failing. Then $Q(x, y) = (r_i - x_i) \lambda_{i, x_{N +
1}}$.

Cascading failures complicate the computation of $Q(x, y)$ for a failure
transition $(x, y)$. As mentioned before, a cascading failure is modeled as a
tree $T$ built from the multiset $B$ of simultaneously failing components, where
$B$ has $y_\ell - x_\ell$ failing components of type $\ell$, $\ell \in \Omega$.
A tree $T$ has a rate

\begin{equation}
\label{eq:rate}
R(T) = (r_i - x_i) \lambda_{i,x_{N + 1}} \, \rho \, \eta,
\end{equation}
where
\begin{itemize}
\item $(r_i - x_i) \lambda_{i,x_{N + 1}}$ is the failure rate of the root
(assumed here to be of type $i$),
\item $\rho = \rho(T)$ is the product of the
$\phi_{j, k}$ terms for a parent node of type $j$ causing a child of type $k \in
\Gamma_j$ to fail, and
\item $\eta = \eta(T,x)$ is the product of the $1 - \phi_{j, k}$ terms from a
node of type $j$ \textit{not} causing a component of type $k \in \Gamma_j$ to
fail when there are components of type $k$ up.
\end{itemize}

A difficulty arises since there can be many such trees corresponding to the
multiset $B$ of components failing in $(x, y)$, and calculating $Q(x, y)$
requires summing $R(T)$ over all possible trees $T$ that can be constructed from
$B$. The number of such trees grows exponentially in the number of failing
components in the cascade; see \cite{ING:2009}.

\subsection{Example of Computing a Tree's Rate}
\label{sec:exrate}

We now provide an example of computing the rate $R(T)$ of a tree $T$. Let
$\Omega = \{ A, B, C \}$, with $r_A = r_B = r_C = 4$. Also, let $\Gamma_A = \{
B, C \}$, $\Gamma_B = \{ A, C \}$, and $\Gamma_C = \{ A, B \}$. Suppose that
$\mathcal{E} = \{ 0 \}$, and consider the failure transition $(x, y)$ with $x =
(2, 2, 3, 0)$ and $y = (4, 4, 4, 0)$. Thus, $(x, y)$ corresponds to $2$
components each of types $A$ and $B$ failing and a single component of type $C$
failing. One possible tree $T$ corresponding to $(x, y)$ is shown in
Figure~\ref{fig:tree}. We assume the nodes in $T$ fail in breadth-first order.

\begin{figure}
\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.4\textwidth]{fig_tree}
\end{center}
\caption{An example of a supertree.}
\label{fig:tree}
\end{figure}

The nodes depicted as double circles form the tree of failing components. The
single circles correspond to components in some $\Gamma_i$ but did not fail.  A
component type $j$ in some $\Gamma_i$ could have \textit{not failed} because
either there are components of type $j$ up at this point but its coin flip came
up tails (with probability $1 - \phi_{i, j}$), or there were no more components
of type $j$ up at this point. Each node has a label of the form $i$-ID, where
$i$ denotes the type of the component for that node, and ID is the position of
the node in a breadth-first ordering of all the nodes (single and double
circles). We include the IDs just to simplify the discussion here. We call the
tree of all nodes the \textit{supertree} corresponding to the tree $T$ of
failing nodes. The supertree is used to compute $R(T)$ of $T$ as follows. Let
$u_i$ be the number of components of type $i$ available in the system. Since the
root is a component of type $A$ and there are $u_A = r_A - x_A = 2$ components
of type $A$ at the start of the transition $(x, y)$, the rate of the trigger of
the cascade is $2 \lambda_{A, 0}$. The root then causes a component of type $B$
to fail at node ID 2, and this occurs with probability $\phi_{A, B}$. The node
at ID 3 did not fail, and at this point there are $u_C = r_C - x_C = 1 > 0$
components of type $C$ still up, so this non-failure occurs with probability $1
- \phi_{A,C}$. Instead of stepping through the rest of the supertree one node at
a time, we notice that all the $\phi_{i, j}$ terms must be included if $T$ is to
correspond to $(x, y)$. Thus, in (\ref{eq:rate}) we have $\rho = \phi_{A, B} \,
\phi_{B, C} \, \phi_{C, B} \, \phi_{B, A}$. We notice the following when
calculating $\eta$ in (\ref{eq:rate}):
\begin{itemize} 
\item $1 - \phi_{i, j}$ terms are included if and only if there are still
components of type $j$ up.
\item Each time we encounter a node of type $j$ that has failed in the breadth-
first enumeration of $T$, we decrement $u_j$ by 1.
\end{itemize}
Keeping these observations in mind, we now calculate $\eta$. For component type
$A$ we have $u_A = 2$ before we traverse through $T$. As we do a breadth-first
traversal through $T$, at ID 1, $u_A = 1$. We see that $u_A > 0$ until ID 8. So
$\eta$ includes terms $1 - \phi_{B, A}$ and $1 - \phi_{C, A}$ from IDs $4$ and
$6$, respectively. For component type $B$ we have $u_B = r_B - x_B  = 2$ before
we traverse through $T$. Since components of type $B$ have already been
exhausted at ID 7, we do not include $1 - \phi_{A, B}$ at ID 10 in $\eta$. For
component type $C$ we see that $u_C = 1$ before we traverse through $T$, and
$u_C = 0$ at ID 5. Hence, the only contribution to $\eta$ from a component of
type~$C$ not failing is $1 - \phi_{A, C}$ from ID 3. Taking the product over all
component types yields $\eta = (1 - \phi_{B, A}) \, (1 - \phi_{C, A}) \, (1 -
\phi_{A,C})$. Therefore, $R(T)$ is $2 \lambda_{A, 0} \; \rho \; \eta$. In our
implementation $\eta$ is calculated through a data structure called
\varName{BFHist}, which we describe later in Section~\ref{sec:seedtrees}.

We previously stated that the order in which the components fail in a tree must
be specified for the tree's rate to  be well defined. To see why, suppose
instead that the components in Figure~\ref{fig:tree} fail in depth-first order.
The depth-first traversal of $T$ is \nodeLabel{A}{1}, \nodeLabel{B}{2},
\nodeLabel{A}{4}, \nodeLabel{C}{5}, \nodeLabel{A}{6}, \nodeLabel{B}{7},
\nodeLabel{A}{8}, \nodeLabel{B}{10}, \nodeLabel{C}{11}, \nodeLabel{C}{9},
\nodeLabel{C}{3}. Initially, the number of components up of each type are $u_A =
2$, $u_B = 2$ and $u_C = 1$ as before. In this traversal a component of type $C$
fails at ID 5, which makes $u_C = 0$.

Thus, $\eta$ for the depth-first traversal does not include the terms
$1-\phi_{A,C}$, $1-\phi_{B,C}$ and $1-\phi_{A,C}$ from the subsequent type-$C$
nodes at IDs 11, 9 and 3. In contrast, the breadth-first traversal includes one
$1-\phi_{A,C}$ term at ID 3. Hence, it is necessary to define the order in which
the components fail, even though they fail simultaneously.

\section{Algorithms}
\label{sec:alg}

We now provide efficient algorithms for generating all possible trees and
constructing the $Q$-matrix. A tree corresponds to a multiset of particular
components failing, and cascading failures starting from different states can
have the same multiset of components failing. Hence, a particular tree may
correspond to several different transitions. Our algorithm generates each
possible tree only once and determines all the transitions to which this tree
corresponds. This avoids generating the same tree numerous times for each
corresponding transition, as was originally done in \cite{ING:2009}. Moreover,
rather than building each new tree from scratch, as was done in \cite{ING:2009},
our current algorithm builds larger trees from smaller ones already considered,
leading to additional savings in the overall computational effort.

Computing the rate (\ref{eq:rate}) of a given tree depends on the state from
which the cascading failure began and the multiset of components that fail in
the cascade. We do not actually construct the supertree in our algorithm to
compute a tree's rate, but instead build a \varName{breadth-first history} to
keep track of the information necessary to compute $\eta$ in (\ref{eq:rate}).
This is all done in Algorithms 1 (SeedTrees), 2 \mbox{(AddTreeLevel)} and 3
(ComputeTreeRate).

SeedTrees starts the tree generation and initializes the necessary data
structures for \mbox{AddTreeLevel}. \mbox{AddTreeLevel} adds a new level to an
existing tree in a recursive fashion, updates $\rho$ in (\ref{eq:rate}) to
include the component-affected probabilities, and builds the tree's breadth-
first history. ComputeTreeRate computes the rate of a completed tree for all the
transitions it corresponds to using $\rho$ and $\eta$ computed from the breadth-
first history populated in \mbox{AddTreeLevel}. We will now discuss each
algorithm in detail. References to line numbers in the algorithms are given
within angled brackets \citeLine{}.

\subsection{SeedTrees}
\label{sec:seedtrees}

SeedTrees loops through all component types to choose a root for the tree to be
constructed \citeLine{1}. One of the data structures initialized in SeedTrees is
\varName{BFHist}, which stores the breadth-first history using an array of
linked lists, where the array is indexed by component type. Each linked list
stores the respective parents of nodes exclusive to the supertree and stores the
symbol @ for the nodes that \textit{did} fail in the tree.

The dynamic array \varName{level} contains the current bottom level of the tree
that we are building, and it initially contains the root, which is of type
\varName{rootC.type} \citeLine{5}. We add the symbol @ to the list at
\varName{BFHist}[\varName{rootC.type}] to denote that one component of the
root's type has failed. We update \varName{nFailed} by setting the counter for
\varName{rootC.type} to 1 \citeBlock{5}{7}. We initialize $\rho$ in
(\ref{eq:rate}) to $1$ since no components so far have been caused to fail by
the failure of other components \citeLine{8}.

If the component type \varName{rootC.type} at the root cannot cause any other
components to fail, only the trivial tree of one node can be made with this type
of root. We then evaluate this single-node tree's rate in ComputeTreeRate
because it cannot be grown further. If $\Gamma_{\varName{rootC.type}} \neq
\emptyset$ (i.e., it can cause other types of components to fail), then we call
\mbox{AddTreeLevel} to proceed with building taller trees by adding another
level to the current tree \citeBlock{9}{13}.

\captionAmerica{1}{SeedTrees($\Gamma$)}
where $\Gamma$ is an array of ordered sets that describes which components can
cause which other components to fail
\\*\vspace{0.3em}
\begin{algorithmic}[1]
\FOR{\varName{rootC.type} $\in \Omega$}
  \STATE \varName{level} = [ ]; \COMMENT {Dynamic array of failed components at
  tree's current bottom level}
  \STATE \varName{nFailed} = $[0, 0, \ldots, 0]$; \COMMENT {Array that counts
  failed components of each type in the tree}
  \STATE \varName{BFHist} = $[(\,), (\,), \ldots, (\,)]$; \COMMENT {Array of
  linked lists that keeps a history of parent component types in breadth-first
  order; BFHist is indexed by component types}
  \STATE add \varName{rootC.type} to \varName{level};
  \STATE \varName{nFailed}[\varName{rootC.type}] = 1;
  \STATE add @ to \varName{BFHist}[\varName{rootC.type}]; \COMMENT {Signifies
  one component of type \varName{rootC.type} has failed}
  \STATE $\rho = 1$; \COMMENT {initialize product of component-affected
  probabilities}
  \IF{$\Gamma_{\varName{rootC.type}} == \emptyset$}
    \STATE ComputeTreeRate(\varName{nFailed}, \varName{BFHist}, $\rho$,
    \varName{rootC.type});
  \ELSE
    \STATE AddTreeLevel(\varName{level}, \varName{nFailed}, \varName{BFHist},
    $\rho$, \varName{rootC.type});
  \ENDIF
\ENDFOR
\end{algorithmic}
\hrLine

\subsection{AddTreeLevel}

Given a tree, \mbox{AddTreeLevel} determines all the possibilities for the next
level that can be added to the current tree by taking the Cartesian product of
the power sets of the nonempty $\Gamma_{i}$ for each of the failed components at
the current bottom level. For each possible next level, we recursively call
\mbox{AddTreeLevel}. We use $\mathcal{P}$ to denote the power set-like operation
on an ordered set. In our realization of the power-set operation, components in
each subset maintain their relative ordering from the original set.

We implement this power set-like operation by generating all possible binary
numbers with $\sum\limits_{i \, = \, 1}^{|level|}\Gamma_{level[i]}$ bits. A
total of $\prod\limits_{i \, = \, 1}^{|level|}2^{\Gamma_{level[i]}}$ such binary
numbers are generated. In the binary number, 1 denotes a failed node and 0
denotes a node that is included in a $\Gamma$ set but did not fail. If we have a
tree where none of the leaf nodes at the current bottom level can cause any
other components to fail (i.e., have empty $\Gamma_{i}$s), we get no
nextLevelPossibilities \citeLine{1}.

Otherwise, we choose one possible choice for the failed components in the next
level from the nextLevelPossibilities \citeLine{2}. Each node in $T$ has three
attributes: a component type $i$; an ID, which is its breadth-first ID in the
supertree; and a parentID, which is the breadth-first ID of this node's parent
in the supertree. For each node \varName{parentC} in the current bottom level
that acts as a parent, potentially causing other nodes to fail, we iterate
through all of its possible children, i.e., through $\Gamma_{parentC.type}$. If
any of these children actually fail, then they will be members of the set
\varName{oneNextLevelPossibility} \citeBlock{4}{6}. Now if the redundancy of the
component type we just tried to add as a child has already been exhausted, it
cannot fail and hence our tree is invalid and we move on to the next possibility
\citeBlock{10}{12}.

If a child of type \varName{childC.type} has failed (i.e., it exists within
nextLevelPossibilities), the relevant data structures are updated to signify
this occurrence. We increment the number of failed components of type
\varName{childC.type}, add the symbol @ to
\varName{BFHist}[\varName{childC.type}] (to mark that a failure of this type has
occurred at the current location in the tree), and update $\rho$ by multiplying
it by $\phi_{i, j}$ \citeBlock{11}{13}. If the child does not actually fail,
then we add \varName{parentC.type} to \varName{BFHist}[\varName{childC.type}].
Later in ComputeTreeRate for each transition $(x, y)$, we evaluate which of
these children could have failed but did not, and which could \textit{not} have
failed because their type's redundancy was exhausted. \citeBlock{14}{16}.

We do the above updates to the data structures for each potential parent node in
\varName{level} and each of its children in \varName{oneNextLevelPossibility}.
If at least one child has been added, we recursively add another level to the
current tree \citeBlock{19}{23}. Otherwise, this tree has not changed in this
pass through \mbox{AddTreeLevel} and we call ComputeTreeRate to compute the rate
of the finalized tree \citeBlock{24}{26}. We make sure that trees are not double
counted because once a tree passes through \mbox{AddTreeLevel} unmodified, it is
processed and discarded. We avoid making duplicate trees because each
oneNextLevelPossibility is unique.

\captionAmerica{2}{AddTreeLevel(\varName{level}, \varName{nFailed},
\varName{BFHist}, $\rho$, \varName{rootC.type})} where \varName{level} is the
current level of failed components,
\\*\varName{nFailed} counts failed components by type in the tree,
\\*\varName{BFHist} is breadth-first history, \\*$\rho$ is a cumulative product
of component-affected probabilities, \\*\varName{rootC.type} is the root
component's type in the current tree
\\*\vspace{0.3em}
\begin{algorithmic}[1]
\STATE \varName{nextLevelPossibilities} = $\bigtimes\limits_{i \, = \, 1: \atop
\Gamma_{level[i]} \neq \emptyset}^{|level|}\mathcal{P}(\Gamma_{level[i]});$
\\*\COMMENT{Builds all possibilities for the next level (given the current
level) by taking a Cartesian product of the power sets of non-empty $\Gamma$
sets of failed nodes in the current level}
\FOR{\varName{oneNextLevelPossibility} $\in$ \varName{nextLevelPossibilities}}
	\STATE \varName{addedAChildFlag} = False;
    \FOR{\varName{parentC} $\in$ \varName{level}}
      	\FOR{$i$ $\in$ $\Gamma_{\varName{parentC.type}}$}
          	\IF{$\exists$ \varName{childC} $\in$
          	\varName{oneNextLevelPossibility} $:$ \varName{childC.type} == $i$
          	$\&\&$ \varName{childC.parentID} == \varName{parentC.ID}}
          		\STATE \varName{addedAChildFlag} = True;
          		\IF{$\varName{nFailed}[\varName{childC.type}] ==
          		r_{\varName{childC.type}}$}
	            	\STATE goto line 2;
              		\COMMENT {Invalid Tree, it requires more components than
              		available}
            	\ENDIF
            	\STATE \varName{nFailed}[\varName{childC.type}] =
            	\varName{nFailed}[\varName{childC.type}] + 1;
	            \STATE add @ to \varName{BFHist}[\varName{childC.type}];
	            \COMMENT {One component of type \varName{childC.type} has
	            failed}
	            \STATE $\rho = \rho \, * \, \phi_{parentC.type,\; childC.type};$
	            \\*\COMMENT {Update rate with appropriate component-affected
	            probability}
          	\ELSE
           		\STATE add \varName{parentC.type} to
           		\varName{BFHist}[\varName{childC.type}]; \COMMENT {One component
           		of type \varName{childC.type} has not failed, but was present in
           		$\Gamma_{\varName{parentC.type}}$}
         	\ENDIF
      	\ENDFOR
    \ENDFOR
    \IF{\varName{addedAChildFlag}}
      \STATE AddTreeLevel(\varName{oneNextLevelPossibility}, \varName{nFailed},
      \varName{BFHist}, $\rho$, \varName{rootC.type});
      \\*\COMMENT {Tree can be grown further}
    \ELSE
      \STATE ComputeTreeRate(\varName{nFailed}, \varName{BFHist}, $\rho$,
      \varName{rootC.type});
      \\*\COMMENT {Current tree is complete because it cannot be grown further}
    \ENDIF
\ENDFOR
\end{algorithmic}
\hrLine

\subsection{ComputeTreeRate}

In ComputeTreeRate, for a given tree, we determine all of the transitions $(x,
y)$ in the $Q$-matrix that use this tree, and then update the total rates of
each of those transitions $(x, y)$ by adding in the rate of the current tree to
the current rate for $(x, y)$. However, even if several transitions use the same
tree, the rate of the tree may differ for those transitions since the failure
rate of the root and $\eta$ are transition-dependent.

Let $x' = (x_{1}, x_{2}, \ldots, x_{N})$ and $S' = \{(x_{1}, x_{2}, \ldots,
x_{N}): 0 \leq x_{i} \leq r_{i}, \, \forall i \in \Omega \}$. In line 1 of
ComputeTreeRate, we only loop through $x' \in S'$ and not $x \in S$ because the
structure of a tree does not depend on the environment; only the tree's rate
does. Also, as we explained in the example tree-rate calculation in
Section~\ref{sec:exrate}, computing $\eta$ in (\ref{eq:rate}) requires keeping
track of the number $u_i$ of components of each type $i$ still up as we perform
a breadth-first traversal through the supertree.

Each time we encounter the symbol @ in the \varName{BFHist}, we reduce the
number available by one \citeBlock{5}{7}. If there are components still
available, we update $\eta$ \citeBlock{8}{9}. As soon as $u_{i}$ reaches zero,
we break because that type has then been exhausted and can no longer fail
\citeBlock{10}{12}.

Once we have finished calculating $\eta$, we loop through all environments since
the same tree can be used for transitions occurring in different environments
\citeLine{15}. We convert $x' \in S'$ into a state $x \in S$ by appending an
environment $e$ \citeLine{16}. We generate a potential state $y$ by adding
\varName{nFailed} to $x'$ and appending environment $e$ \citeLine{17}. Invalid
states $y$ will be generated in some instances because simply adding
\varName{nFailed} will cause some component types' number failed to exceed their
redundancies \citeBlock{18}{20}. We finally compute the rate of the tree for the
transition $(x,y)$ using (\ref{eq:rate}), and add this to the current cumulative
rate $Q(x, y)$ for the transition \citeLine{21}.

\captionAmerica{3}{ComputeTreeRate(\varName{nFailed}, \varName{BFHist}, $\rho$,
\varName{rootC.type})} where \varName{level}  is the current bottom level of
failed components, \\*\varName{nFailed} counts the failed components of each
type in the tree, \\*\varName{BFHist} is breadth-first history, \\*$\rho$ is a
cumulative product of component-affected probabilities, \\*\varName{rootC.type}
is the root's type in the tree
\\*\vspace{0.3em}
\begin{algorithmic}[1]
\FOR{$x' \in S'$}
  \STATE $\eta = 1;$ \COMMENT{Cumulative product of complement probabilities of
  components that could have failed but did not}
  \FOR{$i \in \Omega$}
    \STATE $u_{i} = r_{i} - x'_{i};$
    \FOR{$\varName{parentC.type}\,$ in $\varName{BFHist}[\varName{i}]$}
      \IF{\varName{parentC.type} == @}
        \STATE $u_{i} = u_{i}- 1;$
      \ELSIF {$u_{i} > 0$}
        \STATE $\eta = \eta * (1 - \phi_{parentC.type,\; i});$
      \ELSE
        \STATE break;
        \COMMENT{need $u_{i} > 0$ or else there cannot be any more failed nodes
        of type $i$}
      \ENDIF
    \ENDFOR
  \ENDFOR
  \FOR{$\varName{e} \in \mathcal{E}$}
    \STATE $x = (x', e)$;
    \STATE $y = (x' + nFailed, e)$;
    \IF{$y$ is not a valid state}
    \STATE continue;
    \ENDIF
    \STATE $\varName{Q}(x, y) = (r_{\varName{rootC.type}} -
    x[\varName{rootC.type}]) * \rho * \eta;$
  \ENDFOR
\ENDFOR
\end{algorithmic}
\hrLine

\subsection{Computing a Tree's Rate Revisited}

We now use our example in Section \ref{sec:exrate} to show how to compute $\eta$
from (\ref{eq:rate}) using the data structure \varName{BFHist} for Figure
\ref{fig:tree}. We assume the tree in Figure \ref{fig:tree} was first
constructed from several recursive calls to AddTreeLevel, which also built
\varName{BFHist} as follows.

\begin{center}
	\begin{tabular}{| c | l |}
		\hline
		\textit{A} & \nodeLabel{@}{1} \ \nodeLabel{B}{2} \ \nodeLabel{C}{5} \ \nodeLabel{@}{8} \\
		\hline
		\textit{B} & \nodeLabel{@}{2} \ \nodeLabel{@}{7} \ \nodeLabel{A}{8} \\
		\hline
		\textit{C} & \nodeLabel{A}{1} \ \nodeLabel{@}{5} \ \nodeLabel{B}{7} \ \nodeLabel{A}{8} \\
		\hline
	\end{tabular}
\end{center}

We then proceed to ComputeTreeRate to compute $\eta$. As in Section
\ref{sec:exrate}, prior to iterating through \varName{BFHist}, we have $u_A =
2$, $u_B = 2$ and $u_C = 1$. Iteration through \varName{BFHist} occurs as
specified in ComputeTreeRate \citeBlock{3}{14}.

\begin{itemize}
\item Iteration through the linked list at index $A$ is as follows: The
\nodeLabel{@}{1} means a component of type $A$ has failed at ID 1, so we then
decrement $u_{A}$ to 1. Then for the next two entries, since $u_{A}$ is still
positive, $\eta$ includes $(1 - \phi_{B, A})$ and $(1 - \phi_{C, A})$ from
\nodeLabel{B}{2} and \nodeLabel{C}{5} respectively in its product. Finally
\nodeLabel{@}{8} means a component of type $A$ failed at ID 8, so we decrease
$u_A$ to 0.

\item Iteration through the linked list at index $B$ is as follows:
\nodeLabel{@}{2} and \nodeLabel{@}{7} mean components of type $B$ have failed at
IDs 2 and 7 respectively, so we decrement $u_{B}$ from 2 to 1 and then from 1 to
0. Since $u_{B}$ is now 0, we cannot include any terms from this row in $\eta$.

\item Iteration through the linked list at index $C$ is as follows: Since
$u_{C}$ starts out positive, we include $(1 - \phi_{A, C})$ from
\nodeLabel{A}{1}. \nodeLabel{@}{5} means a component of type $C$ has failed at
ID 5, so we decrement $u_{C}$ to 0. Since $u_{C} = 0$, again we cannot include
any terms from this row in $\eta$.
\end{itemize}
Multiplying the contributions from each index results in $\eta = (1 - \phi_{B,
A}) (1 - \phi_{C, A}) (1 - \phi_{A, C})$.
 
\section{Performance Analysis}
TODO: Discuss MTTF and SSU computations, and how we utilize Up-state condition
to parition S into U and U'. 

When computing dependability measures such as the mean time to failure (MTTF)
and steady-state unavailability (SSU), we rely on third-party libraries to
perform the matrix operations \cite{OJAL:2013}. We can easily swap out
libraries for these tasks, so there is no need to discuss the performance of
the $Q$-matrix operations.  As we look at models with larger $S$, we see the
overhead for matrix operations become apparent.  However, for models with
relatively small $S$ (less than 1000 states) we see an increasing time to
generate trees (TGT) as the number of trees generated increases. Note that the
systems with larger numbers of states do not necessarily correspond to larger
numbers of trees.  However, we do perform certain matrix operations in
Algorithm 3 which may have a significant overhead for relatively large models
(more than 1000 states).
\\

TODO: Introduce Models
81-State
include graphics 81 graph
288-State
include graphics 288 graph
640-State
include graphics 640 graph
1944-State
include graphics 1944 graph
125-State
include graphics 125 graph
\changed{Total Run Times}

\noindent\begin{minipage}[c]{\textwidth}
	\centering
    \begin{tabular}{|r|r|l|}
    \hline
	    States & Trees  & TGT  \\ \hline
	    81    & 978    & 0.12 \\ \hline
	    288   & 4507   & 0.26 \\ \hline
	    1944  & 6328   & 1.42 \\ \hline
	    640   & 27746  & 1.64 \\ \hline
	    125   & 321372 & 6.22 \\ \hline
	\end{tabular}
	\captionof{table}{Relation of TGT vs number of trees across various models}
	\label{fig:table}
\end{minipage}

\vspace{1em}
The number of trees can grow exponentially in the number of components in the
cascade (see \cite{ING:2009}), and this limits the size of the models that our
algorithm can handle.  To address this issue, we explored heuristic approaches
that reduce the computational effort by halting the generation of trees based
on a stopping criterion. We insert the necessary breaking condition in
\mbox{AddTreeLevel} at line \citeLine{19} \changed{(moving the code currently at line \citeLine{19} down to accomodate this)}, which will cause the program to skip over to the next enumeration of the bottom-most tree level. \changed{By skipping over the bottom-most tree level we don't generate a particular tree and thus neither evaluate its rate nor update the $Q$-matrix with said rate. The goal is to generate trees with relatively higher rates to get an approximate MTTF and SSU while saving time by skipping trees with relatively lower rates.}
% We will denote the new threshold pseudo-code with lines \citeLine{19.x}.

\vspace{1em}
\noindent\textbf{New lines starting at \citeLine{19}}
\changed{
\begin{algorithmic}[1]
\IF{stopping criterion satisfied}
 	\STATE goto line 2;
\ENDIF
\end{algorithmic}
}
\vspace{1em}

Ultimately, this leads to an approximation of the original $Q$-matrix, which we will denote as $Q'$. Note that we evalulate one stopping criterion at a time - trying to combine criteria would require prior knowledge of the behavior of each single criterion.  We could combine the criteria using logical AND statements, or in tuples of ANDs and ORs.  However, first we must ascertain that any single threshold is not superior to all other criteria.   Otherwise, combining criteria cannot result in a better efficiency than the single superior criterion.

\vspace{1em}
\noindent\textbf{Stopping Criteria}
\begin{enumerate}
\item $\varName{height} > \tau_h$

We first consider the \textit{height threshold}, where we stop generating
trees after the height of the current tree reaches $\tau_h$. It is necessary
to create a global variable \varName{height} to keep track of the height.  Our
implementation requires a slight modification to \mbox{AddTreeLevel}, where we
introduce the \varName{height} as a method parameter. We also modified line
\citeLine{20} to increment the \varName{height} on every successive call.

\item $\displaystyle\sum_{i=1}^N \varName{nFailed}[i] > \tau_n$

We also considered the  \textit{node threshold}, so constructed trees will
contain a maximum of $\tau_n$ failed components.

\item $\rho < \tau_r$

We also used a \textit{rate threshold}, where we stop generating trees after
$\rho$ \changed{in (\ref{eq:rate})} drops below $\tau_r$.
\end{enumerate}


Increasing $\tau_h$ and $\tau_n$ leads to a monotonically increasing number of
generated trees, whereas the number of generated trees decreases monotonically
\changed{with} $\tau_r$. Clearly, setting $\tau_h = \tau_n = \infty$ or $\tau_r = 0$ leads
to generating all trees, which results in the exact values for the MTTF and
SSU.  We can also get the exact values for the dependability measures by
choosing thresholds

$\tau_{h_0} = \tau_{n_0} = \displaystyle\sum_{i=1}^N r_i$ and $\tau_{r_0} = 
\max_{i,j \in \Omega : j \in \Gamma_i} \phi_{i,j}$.

Although $\tau_r$ starts at zero, we must provide an upper bound so that we
can analyze and compare all of the thresholds with the same control variable.
Since we halt tree generation prematurely, the resulting matrix $Q'$ (that
sums the rates over trees that are actually generated) can differ from the
matrix $Q$ that results from summing over all trees. Solving for the MTTF and
SSU with $Q'$ rather than $Q$ leads to inaccuracies in the values for these
dependability measures.

%$We investigated the trade-off in the time saved by
%halting tree generation versus the resulting error in the dependability
%measures computed from $Q'$.

\begin{minipage}[c]{\textwidth}
	\centering
	\includegraphics{simulation125model.png}
	\captionof{figure}{Graph representation of the 125-state model}
	\label{fig:model}
\end{minipage}

\vspace{1em}
\changed{WE NEED TO DISCUSS THE UTILITY OF GIVING MODEL DETAILS!}

\subsection{Enumerating thresholds}
For the model shown in Figure~\ref{fig:model}, we try setting different values
for the thresholds to examine the trade-off in the TGT and errors in the
resulting MTTF and SSU.  Starting from $i = 0$, we can calculate the next
subsequent value of a threshold based on the index $i$.  Here are \changed{the governing} recursive equations for \changed{choosing} our thresholds:

\begin{enumerate}
\item $\tau_{h_{i+1}} = \tau_{h_i} - 1$
\item $\tau_{n_{i+1}} = \tau_{n_i} - 1$
\item $\tau_{r_{i+1}} = \tau_{r_i} / \min_{i,j \in \Omega : j \in \Gamma_i} \phi_{i,j}$
\end{enumerate}

\iffalse
\begin{center}
	\begin{tabular}{|l|l|l|l|l|}
	\hline
    $\tau_h$  & Trees   & TGT (s) & MTTF   & SSU    \\ \hline
	3	&	1701	&	0.678962855	&	211.76789101563693	&	0.00485821014338367	\\ \hline
	4	&	21873	&	1.330667589	&	102.28326868846004	&	0.01220394254356029	\\ \hline
	5	&	80604	&	2.5681346	&	67.47691830610874	&	0.02012865520579172	\\ \hline
	6	&	161622	&	4.089599327	&	53.42339598844301	&	0.02628699745556959	\\ \hline
	7	&	236586	&	5.051676486	&	47.40501639870173	&	0.03003494756466149	\\ \hline
	8	&	287910	&	5.746202715	&	45.01922033674289	&	0.03186821297461374	\\ \hline
	9	&	312732	&	6.393402559	&	44.28601244966885	&	0.03251784995527114	\\ \hline
	10	&	320280	&	6.127569083	&	44.13901596884107	&	0.03266235351149184	\\ \hline
	11	&	321372	&	6.204861941	&	44.1244629272665	&	0.03267778135277639 \\ \hline
    \end{tabular}
\end{center}

\begin{center}
	\begin{tabular}{|l|l|l|l|l|}
	\hline
    $\tau_n$  & Trees   & TGT (s) & MTTF   & SSU    \\ \hline
    3	&	24	&	0.06	&	1642.68	&	0.0003	\\ \hline
	4	&	66	&	0.12	&	524.14	&	0.0015	\\ \hline
	5	&	192	&	0.16	&	252.28	&	0.0038	\\ \hline
	6	&	588	&	0.33	&	156.08	&	0.0071	\\ \hline
	7	&	1875	&	0.56	&	110.62	&	0.0110	\\ \hline
	8	&	6165	&	1.01	&	83.35	&	0.0152	\\ \hline
	9	&	20322	&	1.68	&	65.42	&	0.0198	\\ \hline
	10	&	63072	&	2.48	&	54.14	&	0.0246	\\ \hline
	11	&	167022	&	4.28	&	47.66	&	0.0291	\\ \hline
    \end{tabular}
\end{center}

\begin{center}
	\begin{tabular}{|l|l|l|l|l|}
	\hline
    $\tau_r$      & Trees  & TGT (s) & MTTF    & SSU    \\ \hline
    4E-1	&	18	&	0.06	&	2409.70	&	0.0002	\\ \hline
	8E-2	&	64	&	0.12	&	501.80	&	0.0015	\\ \hline
	16E-3	&	249	&	0.18	&	208.48	&	0.0049	\\ \hline
	32E-4	&	1142	&	0.38	&	119.48	&	0.0099	\\ \hline
	64E-5	&	5838	&	0.92	&	79.83	&	0.0159	\\ \hline
	128E-6	&	27955	&	1.85	&	58.97	&	0.0224	\\ \hline
	256E-7	&	105462	&	3.27	&	48.77	&	0.0284	\\ \hline
	512E-8	&	251637	&	5.31	&	44.58	&	0.0322	\\ \hline
	1024E-9	&	320861	&	6.22	&	44.12	&	0.0327	\\ \hline
    \end{tabular}
\end{center}
\fi 

\noindent\begin{minipage}[c]{\textwidth}
	\centering
	\begin{tikzpicture}[scale=0.9]
	    \begin{axis}[
	    	max space between ticks=30,
	        ylabel=MTTF,
	        xlabel=TGT (seconds),
	        ymin=40,
            legend style={at={(0.95,0.95)},anchor=north east},
	      ]
	        \addplot[only marks,red,mark=square*] coordinates {
	            (4.28, 47.66)
	            (2.48, 54.15)
	            (1.68, 65.42)
	            (1.01, 83.35)
	            (0.56, 110.62)
	        };
	        \addlegendentry{$\tau_n$}
	        \addplot[only marks,black,mark=triangle*] coordinates {
	            (5.05, 47.41)
	            (4.08, 53.42)
	            (2.56, 67.47)
	            (1.33, 102.28)
	        };
	        \addlegendentry{$\tau_h$}
	        \addplot[only marks,blue] coordinates {
	            (5.31, 44.58)
	            (3.27, 48.77)
	            (1.85, 58.97)
	            (0.92, 79.83)
	        };
	        \addlegendentry{$\tau_r$}
	    \end{axis}
	\end{tikzpicture}
	\hspace{2em}
	\begin{tikzpicture}[scale=0.9]
	    \begin{axis}[
	    	max space between ticks=30,
	        ylabel=SSU,
	        xlabel=TGT (seconds),
            legend style={at={(0.95,0.05)},anchor=south east},
	      ]
	        \addplot[only marks,red,mark=square*] coordinates {
	            (4.28, 0.0291)
	            (2.48, 0.0246)
	            (1.68, 0.0198)
	            (1.01, 0.0152)
	            (0.56, 0.0110)
	        };
	        \addlegendentry{$\tau_n$}
	        \addplot[only marks,black,mark=triangle*] coordinates {
	            (5.05, 0.0300)
	            (4.08, 0.0263)
	            (2.56, 0.0201)
	            (1.33, 0.0122)
	            (0.67, 0.0049)
	        };
	        \addlegendentry{$\tau_h$}
	        \addplot[only marks,blue] coordinates {
	            (5.31, 0.0322)
	            (3.27, 0.0284)
	            (1.85, 0.0224)
	            (0.92, 0.0159)
	            (0.38, 0.0099)
	        };
	        \addlegendentry{$\tau_r$}
	    \end{axis}
	\end{tikzpicture}
	\captionof{figure}{Two graphs showing the relation between TGT and MTTF/SSU}
	\label{fig:graph2}
\end{minipage}

Points closer to the origin of the graph represent more efficienct threshold
values. Decimal values for $\tau_n$ and $\tau_h$ are not valid, since we do
not define a fraction of a component. On the other hand, $\tau_r$ can be
sliced into more points with a slight modification to our recursive equation.
As shown in Figure~\ref{fig:graph3}, $\tau_r$ is the superior threshold.

\begin{minipage}[c]{\textwidth}
	\centering
	\begin{tikzpicture}
	    \begin{axis}[
	    	max space between ticks=30,
	        ylabel=MTTF,
	        xlabel=TGT (seconds),
	        ymin=40
	      ]
	        \addplot[only marks,red,mark=square*] coordinates {
	            (4.83, 47.66)
	            (3.12, 54.15)
	            (1.77, 65.42)
	            (1.18, 83.35)
	            (0.65, 110.62)
	            (0.41, 156.08)
	        };
	        \addlegendentry{$\tau_n$}
	        \addplot[only marks,black,mark=triangle*] coordinates {
	            (5.74, 45.02)
	            (5.05, 47.41)
	            (4.08, 53.42)
	            (2.56, 67.47)
	            (1.33, 102.28)
	        };
	        \addlegendentry{$\tau_h$}
	        \addplot[only marks,blue,opacity=0.4] coordinates {
(0.344082552, 157.5190885463175)
(0.378330792, 147.9078317370886)
(0.382740174, 147.9078317370886)
(0.379160362, 147.57625733995283)
(0.404638214, 134.58099951972483)
(0.407693398, 134.5105420836673)
(0.408394303, 132.1944063794543)
(0.422157951, 127.63862497221515)
(0.4417392, 123.2682365622926)
(0.447972678, 119.47800116980984)
(0.446970534, 119.2609377366602)
(0.499038684, 112.29985247933837)
(0.526347074, 111.74281155144094)
(0.576919899, 106.7691734648383)
(0.622748098, 105.46713919346436)
(0.634484917, 104.13078705240042)
(0.720985005, 98.95502803212393)
(0.723733977, 98.95502803212393)
(0.742169427, 96.4620897905325)
(0.747129889, 94.65375600479332)
(0.748421806, 94.6483505713123)
(0.82217861, 89.46596320539086)
(0.818284129, 88.9319343901071)
(0.825973617, 87.44953414900172)
(0.891425726, 84.79442627438799)
(0.908426726, 83.83796267263895)
(0.945712346, 79.95200429617726)
(0.97197172, 79.59074177462524)
(1.152168268, 77.50326279827235)
(1.178107901, 76.66838521971795)
(1.278671691, 74.03705549185341)
(1.306646895, 73.17459250012516)
(1.317523567, 73.03713554330994)
(1.423942375, 69.49588337998549)
(1.439930543, 69.13775642408925)
(1.447929816, 68.95959482654695)
(1.503310099, 66.58295027531301)
(1.580233072, 65.02199768949912)
(1.586738225, 64.89884555254417)
(1.607290545, 63.99041962668084)
(1.640153371, 63.185081407549525)
(1.762170192, 61.93014732885827)
(1.762673321, 61.7841287726133)
(2.026623655, 59.06709866009019)
(2.040350385, 58.9177603427415)
(2.202156341, 58.01120401464048)
(2.378737703, 57.21566964408839)
(2.548764516, 56.38877165851812)
(2.589307001, 55.58690557429628)
(2.591811272, 55.46368707648622)
(2.797474913, 53.97297770438325)
(2.815541258, 53.89772517671483)
(2.921684062, 52.51281500942996)
(3.001292371, 52.22648610967988)
(3.068945932, 51.926465274486326)
(3.235270871, 50.859779060861655)
(3.230514106, 50.859779060861655)
(3.414576006, 50.3358291324884)
(3.440186832, 50.04789682353884)
(3.440772488, 50.04088922919791)
(3.767284412, 48.76703850295514)
(3.783551227, 48.76703850295514)
(3.892158063, 48.3199391302121)
(4.120468587, 47.77464150795925)
(4.171618623, 47.662915667165436)
(4.429253872, 46.88154637849341)
(4.413631229, 46.881328101249686)
(4.357047837, 46.42155167256497)
(4.358408584, 46.419419723163394)
(4.98801497, 45.88158176521943)
(4.764117562, 45.74789890258021)
(5.575508072, 45.72257131523723)
(5.662311278, 44.97715874824674)
(5.307410718, 44.97715874824674)
(5.396393051, 44.90584140426985)
(5.784158034, 44.90584140426985)
(5.424027912, 44.90584140426985)
(5.725843844, 44.578034109756366)
(5.662620359, 44.578034109756366)
	        };
	        \addlegendentry{$\tau_r$}
	    \end{axis}
	\end{tikzpicture}
	\captionof{figure}{Minute stepping in $\tau_r$ shows a clear improvement over any other $\tau$}
	\label{fig:graph3}
\end{minipage}

\subsection{Choosing an appropriate $\tau_r$}
Use Djikstra's algorithm to find the shortest path with the largest rate.

\section{Remarks}
\subsection{MTTF Computation}
We remove the down-states from the matrix to speed up MTTF calculation.

\subsection{Bookmarks}
We do not store all failed components \varName{BFHist}, we simply multiply until
we hit a not-failed component.

\bibliographystyle{plain}
\bibliography{mkn}

\end{document}